41:12 Thou shalt seek them, and shalt not find them, even them that
contended with thee: they that war against thee shall be as nothing,
and as a thing of nought.

41:13 For I the LORD thy God will hold thy right hand, saying unto
thee, Fear not; I will help thee.

41:14 Fear not, thou worm Jacob, and ye men of Israel; I will help
thee, saith the LORD, and thy redeemer, the Holy One of Israel.

41:15 Behold, I will make thee a new sharp threshing instrument having
teeth: thou shalt thresh the mountains, and beat them small, and shalt
make the hills as chaff.

41:16 Thou shalt fan them, and the wind shall carry them away, and the
whirlwind shall scatter them: and thou shalt rejoice in the LORD, and
shalt glory in the Holy One of Israel.

41:17 When the poor and needy seek water, and there is none, and their
tongue faileth for thirst, I the LORD will hear them, I the God of
Israel will not forsake them.

41:18 I will open rivers in high places, and fountains in the midst of
the valleys: I will make the wilderness a pool of water, and the dry
land springs of water.

41:19 I will plant in the wilderness the cedar, the shittah tree, and
the myrtle, and the oil tree; I will set in the desert the fir tree,
and the pine, and the box tree together: 41:20 That they may see, and
know, and consider, and understand together, that the hand of the LORD
hath done this, and the Holy One of Israel hath created it.

41:21 Produce your cause, saith the LORD; bring forth your strong
reasons, saith the King of Jacob.

41:22 Let them bring them forth, and shew us what shall happen: let
them shew the former things, what they be, that we may consider them,
and know the latter end of them; or declare us things for to come.

41:23 Shew the things that are to come hereafter, that we may know
that ye are gods: yea, do good, or do evil, that we may be dismayed,
and behold it together.

41:24 Behold, ye are of nothing, and your work of nought: an
abomination is he that chooseth you.

41:25 I have raised up one from the north, and he shall come: from the
rising of the sun shall he call upon my name: and he shall come upon
princes as upon morter, and as the potter treadeth clay.

41:26 Who hath declared from the beginning, that we may know? and
beforetime, that we may say, He is righteous? yea, there is none that
sheweth, yea, there is none that declareth, yea, there is none that
heareth your words.

41:27 The first shall say to Zion, Behold, behold them: and I will
give to Jerusalem one that bringeth good tidings.

41:28 For I beheld, and there was no man; even among them, and there
was no counsellor, that, when I asked of them, could answer a word.

41:29 Behold, they are all vanity; their works are nothing: their
molten images are wind and confusion.

42:1 Behold my servant, whom I uphold; mine elect, in whom my soul
delighteth; I have put my spirit upon him: he shall bring forth
judgment to the Gentiles.

42:2 He shall not cry, nor lift up, nor cause his voice to be heard in
the street.

42:3 A bruised reed shall he not break, and the smoking flax shall he
not quench: he shall bring forth judgment unto truth.

42:4 He shall not fail nor be discouraged, till he have set judgment
in the earth: and the isles shall wait for his law.

42:5 Thus saith God the LORD, he that created the heavens, and
stretched them out; he that spread forth the earth, and that which
#cometh out of it; he that giveth breath unto the people upon it, and
#spirit to them that walk therein: 42:6 I the LORD have called thee in
righteousness, and will hold thine hand, and will keep thee, and give
thee for a covenant of the people, for a light of the Gentiles; 42:7
To open the blind eyes, to bring out the prisoners from the prison,
and them that sit in darkness out of the prison house.

42:8 I am the LORD: that is my name: and my glory will I not give to
another, neither my praise to graven images.

42:9 Behold, the former things are come to pass, and new things do I
declare: before they spring forth I tell you of them.

42:10 Sing unto the LORD a new song, and his praise from the end of
the earth, ye that go down to the sea, and all that is therein; the
isles, and the inhabitants thereof.

42:11 Let the wilderness and the cities thereof lift up their voice,
the villages that Kedar doth inhabit: let the inhabitants of the rock
sing, let them shout from the top of the mountains.

42:12 Let them give glory unto the LORD, and declare his praise in the
islands.

42:13 The LORD shall go forth as a mighty man, he shall stir up
jealousy like a man of war: he shall cry, yea, roar; he shall prevail
against his enemies.

42:14 I have long time holden my peace; I have been still, and
refrained myself: now will I cry like a travailing woman; I will
destroy and devour at once.

42:15 I will make waste mountains and hills, and dry up all their
herbs; and I will make the rivers islands, and I will dry up the
pools.

42:16 And I will bring the blind by a way that they knew not; I will
lead them in paths that they have not known: I will make darkness
light before them, and crooked things straight. These things will I do
unto them, and not forsake them.

42:17 They shall be turned back, they shall be greatly ashamed, that
trust in graven images, that say to the molten images, Ye are our
gods.

42:18 Hear, ye deaf; and look, ye blind, that ye may see.
